Our youth are not here because they are probably heading home at this point.
They've been a camp or all weekend.
They are up at Skycroft rebooting and I was up there on Friday night and they are having a wonderful time.
I hope you've been in prayer for them and we certainly should be praying for their safe return given the weather.
They have had a wonderful weekend.
Parents, I invite you to engage your kids, ask them, you know, would you hear or would you learn?
And more importantly, were you beginning transformation?
A couple of other things as we get started here is we indeed wrapped up our worship, our week of worship and prayer.
It was a wonderful time.
I imagine many of you, most of you got an email about a wonderful encounter that happened on Tuesday night with a homeless gentleman, Paul, who came up here and met us and we prayed for him.
And then that evening we happened to just be praying about that very matter.
powerful night and really the whole week was a powerful week.
And so my hope is as Pat prayed, which is that this week and this whole year is a year of transformation, a year where we as a church are setting our sights on
who God is making us into together.
And my hope is that in your homes, you're doing this as an individual, in your marriages, you're doing this as a marriage, as a family, doing this as a family, and then collectively as a church and prayerfully as a nation and a world.
We need some transformation out there.
Before we get started in the sermon, let's go ahead and start with some prayer.
Heavenly Father, I invite you into this place.
Holy Spirit, we desire for you to stir within us the work of transformation that you are so desirous of doing within each of us.
May we not settle for our small lives, but instead, Lord, may we seek what your will is, your grand and beautiful design for each and every one of our lives.
And we pray this in Christ's holy name, amen.
We ended last week, or I ended last week, by saying, you know, or kind of posing the question, like, how does transformation happen?
I actually, so we were talking about a little bit this morning in Sunday morning Bible study, and John at one point said something like, here's how it happens, and I immediately perked up, and I was like, oh great, John's gonna tell us how this works.
And,
He sort of did but he also I mean there's no one answer right is kind of the whole thing I in fact I do invite I want to invite each and every one of you in this moment and kind of as you're thinking through the week like How do you think like how do you think it happens?
How do people grow?
How do people mature into the?
Folks that like hopefully you've got someone in your mind who's like a pillar of the faith or is a human being you would want to admire and live up to.
What did they do to become that?
More than just like God did a work in them.
That is like super important obviously.
But there's ways in which they walked through this world to become the person that they became.
If you've got something, I invite you now.
Email me, call me, text me, reach out in some fashion, and you tell me what made that person, that person, because I'd love to know.
And just fair warning, I might share it in a future sermon unless you don't want me to.
I'm going to try to answer that question how in this sermon.
And it's a partial answer, right?
And the answer, if put as simply as possible, is this.
You become what you behold.
Whatever it is that you're looking at and paying attention to and ingesting on a daily, regular basis is going to have a shaping process over your lifetime.
And if you keep doing that day after day after day, well, you better believe that that is how you will begin to think and receive the world and see the world.
And so I want to start with two examples.
The first is, well, maybe it's less of an example, but it's more of a, like two people seeing the same thing in a very different way.
I was going to give you the 2015 meme of the black and blue dress.
Do you remember this one?
I'm going a different route though.
When I was living in Alabama there, like I preached a sermon, we used to give these bulletins out and you'd fold them like this and there'd be like Uniontown Baptist Church sitting on the front and then inside of it, you would have the order of worship, right?
Well, on this one this week, I produced one of those optical illusions
Right?
And then the optical illusion was the object lesson for the day.
And the object lesson was simply to say that like one part of the picture, though it looked black, or though it looked white, was actually black or gray, right?
And so you would look at it and you think, oh, that is, that's white.
And then I would say, well, no, it's not.
And then I'd say, OK, go ahead and just fold your paper over.
And you can see that it's not that color.
You think it's that color, but it's not that color.
A nice older lady, her name is Shelby, came up to me afterward and she said, I think my program is defective because mine is white and maybe everybody else is not.
And I said to her, Shelby, I assure you, I just ran them all through a printer and you got the same thing that everybody else did.
You need to understand that this is not white, it's actually black, right?
And it wouldn't soak in.
And so she's seeing one thing, but she thinks she's seeing another thing, right?
Maybe more to the point.
And here, I think I need to stir the pot a little bit, maybe a lot of it.
There's been a big news event that's happened in the last week or so.
And there was a woman who was shot.
Her name is Renee Good.
And when she was shot and killed, I was shocked.
I was shocked by how divided the two responses were to this moment in history.
And my goal right now is not to wade into one or the other response, is to make sure we're all seeing the two responses.
Because when I looked at the responses, the one was, this is a deeply tragic moment where a woman was shot and killed and she has a six year old that has now been left behind.
And that's awful.
And then the other response was she was a domestic terrorist and she was in the way of impeding the work of the federal agent
And she should not have been there.
I've heard this, right?
And so there are these two responses.
And they're sitting in the world.
And this side cannot understand this side.
And this side cannot seem to understand this side, right?
Again, my goal is not to wade into one or the other and to tell you which reality is true, the black or the white here.
My real goal is to say that if I were to talk to this side, I could probably tell you what sorts of media sources they're listening to, who is shaping and forming them, right?
And then if I were to talk to this side, I would be able to tell you the exact same thing.
And I would tell you, well, they're watching these shows and they're listening to these speakers.
And you have to realize that both of these things, it's like we live in two different worlds.
And they're both forming whichever world you choose to live in.
And I would encourage you as the church to unplug from these two worlds, especially in terms of how we understand our politics and understand reality and to plug yourself into the ways
And that Jesus teaches us to think about the way the world should work and the way that we should be walking through this world.
Jesus' ways are not the ways of the world.
And I apply that to really both of these camps here.
And we have to learn to be critical thinkers if we are going to walk through this world well.
more to the point, if we are going to walk through this world as people who have been transformed into the image of Christ.
We read 2 Corinthians 3, and I want to read for you the transformation part of this passage.
Here Paul says, we all, with unveiled face, we behold
the glory of the Lord.
And what happens when you behold the glory of the Lord, of the God who created the heavens and the earth?
What happens when you look into God's face?
Well, he goes on to say, we are transformed into the same image, which is the goal, right?
to become, to be transformed into that image from one degree of glory to another.
For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit.
Recently, I was asked to serve on the North Star board.
So I said yes.
And I had my first meeting with them in December.
And then just on Thursday, they said, well, they called another meeting and we had a strategic planning session.
And so we all gathered together at Columbia Church.
And they were like, we'll say 15 to 20 of us in the room.
And we were strategically planning what North Star should do.
for the rest of 2026, what are the focuses that they want to have, right?
And one of the key ones that they want to work on is discipleship, which I take to be another word for transformation.
Discipleship is the work of how do we become a transformed people.
And so as we're talking about discipleship,
They gave us an article to read in advance.
A gentleman by the name of Carrie Newhoff wrote an article that says, this is clickbait if there ever was.
He's good at coming up with these titles.
Seven disruptive trends that will rule 2026.
This is the name of the article.
This is a very good article.
Seven disruptive trends that will rule 2026.
And rule number five,
is the one I want to talk about today.
He says, and I wholeheartedly agree, that discipleship is now largely controlled by algorithm.
Discipleship is largely controlled by algorithm.
Do you know what he means by that?
Maybe, maybe not.
Well, then let me tell you.
It means that when you hop onto your computer,
Google knows exactly what you want to hear.
It has been studying you.
It has been measuring you.
It knows every fine detail.
It knows things about you that you don't know about you.
And so what does it want to do?
It wants to feed you what you want, because at the end of the day, it wants you to be happy with it.
And so do you think Google is going to feed you things that upset you, at least like internally?
No, they're not going to feed you things that will challenge your world view.
They will instead feed you what?
The things you already want to hear, the things you already believe.
And so your discipleship in this way, and what Kerry Newhoff is saying, is that you are getting on to Google
And you're just hearing the same voices again and again and again.
And they're already telling you the things that you want to hear.
And then you come into a church sanctuary and you hear a pastor on a Sunday morning, you hear me speak.
And I might say something that you disagree with that actually challenges your world order.
And you find, well, that's a little uncomfortable.
I'm not so sure about that.
Because all week long, I've been hearing these other things.
And all week long, I've been listening to these other pastors who say these things.
And I kind of like what they have to say.
And so discipleship, it's being ruled by the algorithms that connect your Facebook and your Instagram and your Twitter feed.
and they continue to feed the same thing over and over.
And so what happens is there was, well, kind of the quote of that morning was the gentleman who was sitting next to me, his name was Oliver.
And Oliver is an older African-American preacher who I think is now retired.
And he had the phrase of the day.
And he said, the people aren't looking for transformation.
He said, they're looking for validation.
They're looking for validation.
And I thought, that's right.
We're all looking for, I go online or maybe even like conversations with friends.
And what I'm looking for is not for them to challenge me.
I want them to validate what I already believe.
And the algorithms are very good at doing this.
But if we are going to participate in transformation, we need to learn to get a little uncomfortable.
We need to learn to let other people, other ideas challenge what we think, who we are, and to really create some space to say, maybe I was wrong about this issue.
Let's work on that together.
Let me find people who disagree with me and seek
See if we can't come to some kind of common ground or see if I can't somehow understand who they are.
I know it might feel like I'm kind of hitting big tech and Facebook and Google and these guys a little too much today.
But I'm going to keep going.
Big tech has learned how to hack your brain.
You've probably, some of you have heard this, some of you may have not, and I'm talking to both of you of course, but especially if you've never heard this before, you need to know that this is how the internet works, this is how these tech companies work.
You see, they've cracked something about the human brain that we didn't like fully know before.
There's a part of your brain in the back called the limbic system.
And it is, we'll call it like the animal nature.
And all animals have a limbic system, like the least of the animal.
And the limbic system is meant for fight or flight.
It teaches us our desires, like your base desires, that is.
So you should think in terms of like, what makes me angry?
Well, when it does, it's sitting back there in that limbic system.
Your desire for sex, back in the limbic system.
Anything that is like helping the survival of the species, back there in the limbic system, what separates humans from every other species is what sits up here, the prefrontal cortex.
And that part, that allows us to sit back and to think about things and to say, oh, I'm not so sure that's right or let's reason through this or emotional regulation.
It's all up here.
But here's what the tech companies have figured out that you and I need to get wise to is they've learned how to override this human part, the thing that makes us most human and tap directly into the thing that makes us most animal.
And so what do they do?
It highlights fear and aggression and sex and all of the things
that you can imagine coming through your screen when you open up Facebook or TikTok or any of these, right?
It's all right there, making you want to click these buttons.
And what they're aiming for is not your humanity.
They're aiming for the thing that makes you least human and most animal.
If my thesis is right, that you become what you behold.
Our tech companies are trying to get us to behold things that make us less human and more animal day after day after day.
And if I were to put up here like a chart of how much time humans have spent on their screen, like, and you just kind of start it back in 2000 and you measure it to 2026, you would see that line just go up and up and up and up because we're spending more and more and more time staring at the very things that we're turning into.
And we wonder why we have a partisan problem, right?
We wonder why everybody's so anxious.
We wonder why people are depressed.
We wonder why all of these problems are going on around us.
We'll look no further than what we behold.
If we are beholding these things day in, day out, over time, that changes us.
And I say us collectively as a nation and a world, and I say us as a church,
But what I really want you to think about is you.
Is it changing you?
Is what you behold somehow warping, changing who you are and who you're becoming.
And if we're going to do the
spiritual work, the good work of transformation as we want to, as somebody moved into the mind of Christ, the image of God.
Well, it's going to take a very different kind of beholding than what the tech companies are trying to get us to do.
And I repeat, 2 Corinthians 3, 18, we all
with the veils of our faces removed, we are beholding the glory of God.
And when we behold His magnificence, the character of God who is loving, this character of God who is for us, the character of God who sees a world in a desperate place and wants to do something about it, well then when we behold that, we are transformed into the same image
from one degree of glory to another.
I want to tell you a story about hummingbirds.
There was a man who went to a local shop and he said, I have a hummingbird feeder, but I can't get any hummingbirds.
And the store owner said, well, that's odd.
because I sell a lot of these hummingbird feeders.
And I know with certainty that there are hummingbirds all over the place here.
And you just have to know what you're looking for.
And so the man returned home and he began to look in earnest for hummingbirds.
And eventually he saw one and then he saw another.
Pretty soon he started seeing others
And then he realized, well, they're everywhere.
He'd begin to walk through the woods and start to see hummingbirds.
He'd walk through neighborhoods and see hummingbirds.
And he realized hummingbirds aren't nowhere.
Hummingbirds are everywhere.
And Scott McKnight, who wrote this, concludes this way, the movements of God's spirit is all around us.
Few of us see it because we first have to learn
what to look for.
In a book by Martin Israel, he wrote, eternity lies all around us and only a veil prevents us from seeing it.
The hum of angels surrounds us and we only need ears to hear it or eyes to see them.
I think too often the veils do hide from us.
who God is and what God's trying to do in this world.
If we could just pierce it, we'd begin to realize that there's a different way that you and I should be transformed and live in this world.
As we were going through Sunday morning Bible study, I was alerted to something that I hadn't planned on sharing, but now feel like I desperately have to.
It's from Philippians chapter four.
It's all about what are we watching?
What are we reading?
What are we ingesting?
What are we beholding?
And Paul says to you and to me, finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely,
Whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, well think about these things.
Think about these things.
Don't you close your eyes for a second and imagine what's been on your computer screen for the last week and ask yourself, are these true, honorable, just, lovely, pure, commendable and excellent?
Are these worthy of praise?
And if not, what are you beholding?
And as you behold these, what are you becoming?
What are we supposed to do, Eric?
What are we supposed to do?
I've got two things for you to conclude the service with here.
The first is this.
I want to make a plug.
We are starting a practice on Wednesday nights, January 28, begins our Wednesday nights again.
We are calling this life together.
It's what we've been doing, but we just have a new name for it.
Life together, though, is actually a lot behind this for me.
It's a Bonhoeffer book, and there's a really good theology with it.
But anyway, it is doing life together.
It's adults and kids and youth, and everybody is there together.
We eat a meal.
And then after that, I'm going to lead a study.
So this will go on for nine weeks, starting Jan 28.
nine weeks, we're gonna talk about emotionally healthy spirituality is the name of this.
It's somewhat provocative in this main idea, which is that until you are emotionally healthy and mature, you can't really become spiritually healthy and mature.
And I think one of the biggest roadblocks, and this is the argument of the series, and it's something that I've really actually been waiting to kind of roll out
One of the greatest roadblocks to transformation, spiritual transformation, I think is our inability to deal with the emotional transformation that needs to happen.
And too often, our limbic system overrides what should be the front of our brain.
And when it does this, we act out in ways not becoming a Christian.
And so for those nine weeks, men, women will gather together.
We'll probably be in here.
I'll be leading it.
And it's a powerful series in which I expect transformation to happen.
The second thing.
I was visiting my brother in early December.
And he said two things that caught my attention.
The first was,
that he goes to church every week, which I didn't know, and made me really happy.
I wasn't so sure about that.
And then when he said that, I said, when you go to church, why do you go?
What's your favorite part?
What do you want in a church service?
I'd love to ask each of you this, by the way.
And he said, well, it's certainly not the sermon.
He said, what it is is they offer a time of silence.
He goes to a Lutheran service.
They're clearly not Baptists.
And he said, they offer a time of silence.
And he said that some of the most sacred time, he didn't say word sacred, it's some of the time in his week where he knows he can just breathe and just be.
And so here's how I want to end this service.
The kids are going to come with me.
Because parents, I know that you sometimes need that.
And I'm going to give you 90 seconds.
It doesn't sound like much.
But 90 seconds of silence is going to feel like an eternity.
I'm going to walk out that back door with the kids.
And in 90 seconds, I'll come back.
But here's what I want you doing.
I want your eyes closed.
And I've been saying, during the sermon here that's gone on too long, I've been saying that what you behold is what you become.
And I want you to practice this, like actually practice it.
I want you to close your eyes when I start the clock.
And I want you to imagine Jesus, like looking into the actual face of the actual Jesus and beholding Him.
and taking the veil off of your own face, whatever it is that's keeping you from Him, and to give yourself some time, to just be in His presence, and to let some things go, and to see what kind of reaction you get from Jesus, because what I think He will look at you with is very soft eyes, who love you, He loves you, and He wants the best for you.
And he wants to encourage you.
And he doesn't want you staring at those screens all week.
All right, so here we go.
1201.
Children, why don't you come with me?